federalist 81
the judiciary continued and the
distribution of the judicial authority
hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
let us now return to the partition of
the judiciary authority between
different courts and their relation to
each other
the judicial power of the united states
is by the plan of the convention to be
vested in one supreme court and in such
inferior courts as the congress may from
time to time ordain and establish
article 3 section 1
that there ought to be one court of
supreme and final jurisdiction is a
proposition which is not likely to be
contested the reasons for it have been
assigned in another place and are too
obvious to need repetition the only
question that seems to have been raised
concerning it is whether it ought to be
a distinct body or branch of the
legislature
the same contradiction is observable in
regard to this matter which has been
remarked in several other cases the very
men who object to the senate as a court
of impeachments on the ground of an
improper intermixture of powers advocate
by implication at least the propriety of
vesting the ultimate decision of all
causes in the whole or inner part of the
legislative body
the arguments or rather suggestions upon
which this charge is founded are to this
effect
the authority of the proposed supreme
court of the united states which is to
be a separate and independent body will
be superior to that of the legislature
the power of construing the laws
according to the spirit of the
constitution will enable that court to
mold them into whatever shape it may
think proper especially as its decisions
will not be in any manner subject to the
revision or correction of the
legislative body
this is as unprecedented as it is
dangerous
in britain the judicial power in the
last resort resides in the house of
lords which is a branch of the
legislature and this part of the british
government has been imitated in the
state constitutions in general the
parliament of great britain and the
legislatures of the several states can
at any time rectify by law the
exceptionable decisions of their
respective courts but the errors and
usurpations of the supreme court of the
united states will be uncontrollable and
remedyless
this upon examination will be found to
be made up altogether of false reasoning
upon misconceived fact
in the first place there is not a
syllable in the plan under consideration
which directly empowers the national
courts to construe the law according to
the spirit of the constitution or which
gives them any greater latitude in this
respect that may be claimed by the
courts of every state
i admit however that the constitution
ought to be the standard of construction
for the laws and that wherever there is
an evident opposition the laws ought to
give place to the constitution but this
doctrine is not deducible from any
circumstance peculiar to the plan of the
convention but from the general theory
of a limited constitution and as far as
it is true is equally applicable to most
if not all the state governments there
can be no objection therefore on this
account to the federal judicature which
will not lie against the local
judicatures in general and which will
not serve to condemn every constitution
that attempts to set bounds to
legislative discretion
but perhaps the force of the objection
may be thought to consist in the
particular organization of the supreme
court in its being composed of a
distinct body of magistrates instead of
being one of the branches of the
legislature as in the government of
great britain and that of the state
to insist upon this point the authors of
the objection must renounce the meaning
they have labored to annex to the
celebrated maxim requiring a separation
of the departments of power
it shall nevertheless be conceded to
them agreeably to the interpretation
given to that maxim in the course of
these papers that it is not violated by
vesting the ultimate power of judging in
a part of the legislative body but
though this be not an absolute violation
of that excellent rule yet it verges so
nearly upon it as on this account alone
to be less eligible than the mode
preferred by the convention
from a body which had even a partial
agency in passing bad laws we could
rarely expect a disposition to temper
and moderate them in the application the
same spirit which had operated in making
them would be too apt in interpreting
them still less could it be expected
that men who had infringed the
constitution in the character of
legislators would be disposed to repair
the breach in the character of judges
nor is this all every reason which
recommends the tenure of good behavior
for judicial offices militates against
placing the judiciary power in the last
resort in a body composed of men chosen
for a limited period
there is an absurdity in referring the
determination of causes in the first
instance to judges of permanent standing
in the last to those of a temporary and
mutable constitution and there is still
greater absurdity in subjecting the
decisions of men selected for their
knowledge of the laws acquired by long
and laborious study to the revision and
control of men who for want of the same
advantage cannot but be deficient in
their knowledge
the members of the legislature will
rarely be chosen with a view to those
qualifications which fit men for the
stations of judges and as on this
account there will be great reason to
apprehend all the ill consequences of
defective information so on account of
the natural propensity of such bodies to
party divisions there will be no less
reason to fear that the pestilential
breath of faction may poison the
fountains of justice the habit of being
continually marshaled on opposite sides
will be too apt to stifle the voice both
of law and of equity
these considerations teach us to applaud
the wisdom of those states who have
committed the judicial power in the last
resort not to a part of the legislature
but to distinct and independent bodies
of men contrary to the supposition of
those who have represented the plan of
the convention in this respect as novel
and unprecedented it is but a copy of
the constitutions of new hampshire
massachusetts pennsylvania delaware
maryland virginia north carolina south
carolina and georgia and the preference
which has been given to those models is
highly to be commended
it is not true in the second place that
the parliament of great britain or the
legislatures of the particular state can
rectify the exceptional decisions of
their respective courts in any other
sense than might be done by a future
legislature of the united states
the theory neither of the british nor
the state constitutions authorizes the
revisal of a judicial sentence by a
legislative act nor is there anything in
the proposed constitution more than in
either of them by which it is forbidden
in the former as well as in the latter
the impropriety of the thing on the
general principles of law and reason is
the sole obstacle
a legislature without exceeding its
province cannot reverse a determination
once made in a particular case though it
may prescribe a new rule for future
cases this is the principle and it
applies in all its consequences exactly
in the same manner and extend to the
state governments as to the national
government now under consideration not
the least difference can be pointed out
in any view of the subject it may in the
last place be observed that the supposed
danger of judiciary encroachments on the
legislative authority which has been
upon many occasions reiterated is in
reality a phantom particular
misconstructions and contraventions of
the will of the legislature may now and
then happen but they can never be so
extensive as to amount to an
inconvenience or in any sensible degree
to affect the order of the political
system
this may be inferred with certainty from
the general nature of the judicial power
from the objects to which it relates
from the manner in which it is exercised
from its comparative weakness and from
its total incapacity to support its
usurpations by force
and the inference is greatly fortified
by the consideration of the important
constitutional check which the power of
instituting impeachments in one part of
the legislative body and of determining
upon them in the other would give to
that body upon the members of the
judicial department
this is alone a complete security there
never can be danger that the judges by a
series of deliberate usurpations on the
authority of the legislature would
hazard the united resentment of the body
entrusted with it while this body was
possessed of the means of punishing
their presumption by degrading them from
their stations
while this ought to remove all
apprehensions on the subject it affords
at the same time a cogent argument for
constituting the senate accord for the
trial of impeachments
having now examined and i trust removed
the objections to the distinct and
independent organization of the supreme
court i proceed to consider the
propriety of the power of constituting
inferior courts this power has been
absurdly represented as intended to
abolish all the county courts in the
several states which are commonly called
inferior courts but the expressions of
the constitution are to constitute
tribunals inferior to the supreme court
and the evident design of the provision
is to enable the institution of local
courts subordinate to the supreme either
in states or larger districts it is
ridiculous to imagine the county courts
were in contemplation and the relations
which will subsist between these and the
former
the power of constituting inferior
courts is evidently calculated to
obviate the necessity of having recourse
to the supreme court in every case of
federal cognizance
it is intended to enable the national
government to institute or authorize in
each state or district of the united
states a tribunal competent to the
determination of matters of national
jurisdiction within its limits
but why it is asked might not the same
purpose have been accomplished by the
instrumentality of the state courts
this admits of different answers
though the fitness and competency of
those courts should be allowed in the
utmost latitude yet the substance of the
power in question may still be regarded
as a necessary part of the plan if it
were only to empower the national
legislature to commit to them the
cognizance of causes arising out of the
national
constitution to confer the power of
determining such causes upon the
existing courts of the several states
would perhaps be as much to constitute
tribunals as to create new courts with
the like power but odd not a more direct
and explicit provision to have been made
in favor of the state courts
there are in my opinion substantial
reasons against such a provision the
most discerning cannot foresee how far
the prevalency of a local spirit may be
found to disqualify the local tribunals
for the jurisdiction of national causes
whilst every man may discover that
courts constituted like those of some of
the states would be improper channels of
the judicial authority of the union
state judges holding their offices
during pleasure or from year to year
will be too little independent to be
relied upon for an inflexible execution
of the national laws and if there was a
necessity for confiding the original
cognizance of causes arising under those
laws to them there would be a
correspondent necessity for leaving the
door of appeal as wide as possible
in proportion to the grounds of
confidence in or distrust of the
subordinate tribunals ought to be the
facility or difficulty of appeals and
well satisfied as i am of the propriety
of the appellate jurisdiction in the
several classes of causes to which it is
extended by the plan of the convention i
should consider everything calculated to
give in practice an unrestrained course
to appeals as a source of public and
private inconvenience
i am not sure but that it will be found
highly expedient and useful to divide
the united states into four or five or
half a dozen districts and to institute
a federal court in each district in lieu
of one in every state the judges of
these courts with the aid of the state
judges may hold circuits for the trial
of causes in the several parts of their
respective districts justice through
them may be administered with ease and
dispatch and appeals may be safely
circumscribed within a narrow compass
this plan appears to me at present the
most eligible of any that could be
adopted and in order to it it is
necessary that the power of constituting
inferior courts should exist in the full
extent in which it is to be found in the
proposed constitution
these reasons seem sufficient to satisfy
a candid mind that the want of such a
power would have been a great defect in
the plan
let us now examine in what manner the
judicial authority is to be distributed
between the supreme and the inferior
courts of the union
the supreme court is to be invested with
original jurisdiction only in cases
affecting ambassadors other public
ministers and consuls and those in which
a state shall be a party public
ministers of every class are the
immediate representatives of their
sovereigns all questions in which they
are concerned are so directly connected
with the public peace that as well for
the preservation of this as out of
respect to the sovereignties they
represent it is both expedient and
proper that such questions should be
submitted in the first instance to the
highest jurisdiction of the nation
though consuls have not in strictness a
diplomatic character yet as they are the
public agents of the nations to which
they belong the same observation is in a
great measure applicable to them
in cases in which a state might happen
to be a party it would ill-suit its
dignity to be turned over to an inferior
tribunal
though it may rather be a digression
from the immediate subject of this paper
i shall take occasion to mention here a
supposition which has excited some alarm
upon very mistaken grounds
it has been suggested that an assignment
of the public securities of one state to
the citizens of another would enable
them to prosecute that state in the
federal courts for the amount of those
securities a suggestion which the
following considerations prove to be
without foundation
it is inherent in the nature of
sovereignty not to be amenable to the
suit of an individual without its
consent
this is the general sense and the
general practice of mankind and the
exemption as one of the attributes of
sovereignty is now enjoyed by the
government of every state in the union
unless therefore there is a surrender of
this immunity in the plan of the
convention it will remain with the
states and the danger intimated must be
merely ideal
the circumstances which are necessary to
produce an alienation of state
sovereignty were disgusting considering
the article of taxation and need not be
repeated here a recurrence to the
principles there established will
satisfy us that there is no color to
pretend that the state governments would
by the adoption of that plan be divested
of the privilege of paying their own
debts in their own way free from every
constraint but that which flows from the
obligations of good faith
the contracts between a nation and
individuals are only binding on the
conscience of the sovereign and have no
pretensions to a compulsive force they
confer no right of action independent of
the sovereign will
to what purpose would it be to authorize
suits against states for the debts they
owe how could recoveries be enforced
it is evident it could not be done
without waging war against the
contracting state and to ascribe to the
federal courts by mere implication and
in destruction of a pre-existing right
of the state governments a power which
would involve such consequence would be
altogether forced and unwarrantable
let us resume the train of our
observations
we have seen that the original
jurisdiction of the supreme court would
be confined to two classes of causes and
those of a nature rarely to occur in all
other cases of federal cognizance the
original jurisdiction would appertained
the inferior tribunals and the supreme
court would have nothing more than
appellate jurisdiction with such
exceptions and under such regulations as
the congress shall make
the propriety of this appellate
jurisdiction has been scarcely called in
question in regard to matters of law but
the clamors have been loud against it as
applied to matters of fact some
well-intentioned men in this state
deriving their notions from the language
and forms which obtain in our courts
have been induced to consider it as an
implied superseder of the trial by jury
in favor of the civil law mode of trial
which prevails in our courts of
admiralty probate and chancery
a technical sense has been affixed to
the term appellate which in our law
parlance is commonly used in reference
to appeals in the course of the civil
law but if i am not misinformed the same
meaning would not be given to it in any
part of new england
there an appeal from one jury to another
is familiar both in language and
practice and is even a matter of course
until there have been two verdicts on
one side the word appellate therefore
will not be understood in the same sense
in new england as in new york which
shows the impropriety of a technical
interpretation derived from the
jurisprudence of any particular state
the expression taken in the abstract
denotes nothing more than the power of
one tribunal to review the proceedings
of another either as to the law or fact
or both
the mode of doing it may depend on
ancient custom or legislative provision
in a new government it must depend on
the latter and may be with or without
the aid of a jury as may be judged
advisable
if therefore the re-examination of a
fact once determined by a jury should in
any case be admitted under the proposed
constitution it may be so regulated as
to be done by a second jury either by
remanding the cause to the court below
for a second trial of the fact or by
directing an issue immediately out of
the supreme court but it does not follow
that the re-examination of a fact once
ascertained by a jury will be permitted
in the supreme court
why may it not be said with the
strictest propriety when a writ of error
is brought from an inferior to a
superior court of law in this state that
the latter has jurisdiction of the fact
as well as the law it is true it cannot
institute a new inquiry concerning the
fact but it takes cognizance of it as it
appears upon the record and pronounces
the law arising upon it the word is
composed of juice and dictio juris
dictio or a speaking and pronouncing of
the law
this is jurisdiction of both fact and
law nor is it even possible to separate
them though the common law courts of
this state ascertain disputed facts by a
jury yet they unquestionably have
jurisdiction in both fact and law and
accordingly when the former is agreed in
the pleadings they have no recourse to a
jury but proceed at once to judgment
i contend therefore on this ground that
the expression's appellate jurisdiction
both as to law and fact do not
necessarily imply a re-examination in
the supreme court of facts decided by
juries in the inferior courts
the following train of ideas may well be
imagined to have influenced the
convention in relation to this
particular provision
the appellate jurisdiction of the
supreme court it may have been argued
will extend to causes determinable in
different modes some in the course of
the common law others in the course of
the civil law
in the former the revision of the law
only will be generally speaking the
proper province of the supreme court in
the latter the re-examination of the
fact is agreeable to usage and in some
cases of which prize causes are an
example might be essential to the
preservation of the public peace it is
therefore necessary that the appellate
jurisdiction should in certain cases
extend in the broadest sense to matters
of fact it will not answer to make an
express exception of cases which shall
have been originally tried by a jury
because in the courts of some of the
states all causes are tried in this mode
i hold that the states will have
concurrent jurisdiction with the
subordinate federal judicatories in many
cases of federal cognizance as will be
explained in my next paper and such
exception would preclude the revision of
matters of fact as well where it might
be proper as where it might be improper
to avoid all inconveniences it will be
safest to declare generally that the
supreme court shall possess appellate
jurisdiction both as to law and fact and
that this jurisdiction shall be subject
to such exceptions and regulations as
the national legislature may prescribe
this will enable the government to
modify it in such a manner as we'll best
answer the ends of public justice and
security
this view of the matter at any rate puts
it out of all doubt that the supposed
abolition of the trial by jury by the
operation of this provision is
fallacious and untrue
the legislature of the united states
would certainly have full power to
provide that in appeals to the supreme
court there should be no re-examination
of facts where they had been tried in
the original causes by juries
this would certainly be an authorized
exception but if for the reason already
intimated it should be thought too
extensive it might be qualified with a
limitation to such causes only as our
determinable and common law in that mode
of trial
the amount of the observations hitherto
made on the authority of the judicial
department is this that it has been
carefully restricted to those causes
which are manifestly proper for the
cognizance of the national judicature
that in the partition of this authority
a very small portion of original
jurisdiction has been preserved to the
supreme court and the risk consigned to
the subordinate tribunals that the
supreme court will possess an appellate
jurisdiction both as to law and fact in
all the cases referred to them both
subject to any exceptions and
regulations which may be thought
advisable that this appellate
jurisdiction does in no case abolish the
trial by jury and that an ordinary
degree of prudence and integrity in the
national councils will ensure us solid
advantages from the establishment of the
proposed judiciary without exposing us
to any of the inconveniences which have
been predicted from that source
publius